# $Id$

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Building and Installing Quagga:

The 'INSTALL' file contains generic instructions on how to use 'configure'
scripts.

For further Quagga specific information on 'configure' and build-time
configuration of the software, please read the Quagga info documentation,
(doc/quagga.info). To read the info page included with the Quagga sources
without first installing Quagga:

	cd doc/
	pinfo -r quagga.info

Assuming you have the user-friendly 'pinfo' info browser installed.

You can also the standard GNU 'info' browser, if you prefer this browser you
have no doubt already spent a lot of time reading its documentation and dont
need to be told how to specify an info file by filename. ;)

The Quagga website should also have recent versions of documentation
available online.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Building Quagga from CVS checkouts:

In order to build from CVS, you will need recent versions of several GNU
tools, particularly autoconf, automake, libtool and texinfo. Note that the
CVS snapshots on the Quagga website do not require these tools; everything
is already setup ready to run 'configure', and if you have trouble building
from CVS checkout it is recommended that you try a CVS snapshot instead.

If you must build from plain CVS checkouts, the versions which should work
at least with:

	automake:	1.8.5
	autoconf:	2.59
	libtool:	1.5.6
	texinfo:	4.7-4

To create the required files, run either the 'update-autotools' script
provided, or else the 'autoreconf' command supplied with your autoconf
package. After this you may run configure. You will need a recentish version
of GNU Texinfo in order to build doc/quagga.info, which is not supplied in
CVS, but is supplied in the CVS snapshots on the Quagga website. You will
need to run make to create this file.

Please refer to "Building and Installing Quagga" above for further
instructions.

--------------------------------------------------------------------------
Notes on required versions:

The general goal is to use a modern baseline of tools, while not
imposing pain on those tracking stable distributions.  The notes below
explain what versions are present in various environments.

TODO:
texinfo 4.7-4 is not a version of texinfo, per
http://ftp.gnu.org/gnu/texinfo/.

NetBSD pkgsrc provides automake 1.9.1 autoconf 2.59 libtool 1.5.6
NetBSD 1.6.2 and 2.0 provide texinfo 4.6.
--------------------------------------------------------------------------
